hello internet world techno guy 3 today
I'm going to be talking about SSDs and
the trim command no doubt SSDs are
faster than hard drives but they require
the trim command to keep up their quick
speed so why do SSDs or solid state
drives need the trim command to function
properly regular hardest drives don't
need it this is because they work on
entirely different fundamentals when you
delete something from your computer it
doesn't disappear from the hard drive
instead it's mark to be overwritten when
something is marked for deletion like
what happens after you empty the recycle
bin or trash it will then be overwritten
whenever that portion of the disk is
needed this can't work with SSDs because
there is no disk - right - instead the
data will be marked for deletion but
still be present on the drive when your
space is filled up with unneeded files
and this will happen quickly no matter
what OS you uses there are a lot of
temporary files that must be constantly
written to the disk it'll begin a
destructive process like any
non-volatile storage medium there are a
specific number of write cycles a drive
can endure before cocking out SSDs
typically lasts a shorter time than
mechanical hard disk drives in this
diagram you can see the cache in storage
the cache is a temporary holding place
for data that is about to be put on or
taken off the disk let's say you want to
write a 500 megabyte video to your drive
since the data is stored in 512 byte
pages on my example drive by the way new
drives come with 4k pages the drive will
have to move a group of these pages
known as a block of data to the cache
delete it then bring in the new data 512
kilobytes down but 500 million bytes to
go you see how this can use up your
write cycles right as long as your SSD
is full it will continue this much
slower and destructive process that will
use up write cycles and severely shorten
the life of the drive trim command to
the rescue instead of letting your drive
fill up with all this unneeded data it
will erase when your system is idle this
garbage collection will ensure your
drive stays up to speed for a much
longer time currently Windows 7 and
higher releases some distributions of
Linux and the new MacBook Pros support
the trim command this video is only a
slice of the
cake so if you want to get more
technical with the reasoning behind trim
google it there's a lot of information
out there this has been techno guys 3
and thanks for watching
instead of letting your drive fill up
with all this unneeded data in oral
it'll build up when something is marked
for deletion deletion off Rick